osxbuild/macOS_build_notes.md, before:

# macOS BUILD NOTES
These notes describe what had to be done on fresh installs of macOS 10.8 - 10.13 in order to compile Armory.

## Requirements / Caveats
Armory is designed to run only on macOS 10.8 or later. Running on 10.7 may be possible with proper code editing. However, this isn't recommended due to [issues with C++11 support under macOS 10.7](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/issues/8577#issuecomment-255945996). The latest versions of macOS and Xcode that can compile 10.7-compatible binaries are macOS 10.11 and Xcode 7.3.1. (The binaries are also compatible with macOS 10.12 and beyond.) An [Apple developer account](https://developer.apple.com/) may be used to obtain Xcode 7.3.1.

If a bug is found, please consult the [Bitcoin Forum](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=97.0) or *bitcoin-armory* IRC channel on Freenode for further instructions.

## Instructions
 1. Get an Apple developer account (free), log in, and download the latest version of Command Line Tools for Xcode. As an alternative, install the latest version of [Xcode](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/xcode/id497799835) and download Command Line Tools via Xcode. Either choice will be updated via the App Store.

 2. Open a terminal and install the Xcode commandline tools. Follow any prompts that appear.

        xcode-select --install

 3. Install and update [Homebrew](http://brew.sh). Warnings can probably be ignored, although environment differences and changes Apple makes to the OS between major releases make it impossible to provide definitive guidance. Any instructions given by Homebrew must be followed. (Exact directions seem to change depending on which version of Xcode is installed.)

        /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
        touch ~/.bashrc
        echo "export CFLAGS=\"-arch x86_64\"" >> ~/.bashrc
        echo "export ARCHFLAGS=\"-arch x86_64\"" >> ~/.bashrc
        source ~/.bashrc
        brew update
        brew doctor

 4. Install and link dependencies required by the Armory build process but not by included Armory binaries.

        brew install xz swig gettext openssl automake libtool homebrew/dupes/zlib
        brew link gettext --force

 5. Restart your Mac. (This is necessary due to issues related to the Python install.)

 6. Create a symbolic link for glibtoolize. (This requires sudo access and is probably not strictly necessary. It make Autotools much happier, though, and should be harmless otherwise.)

        sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/glibtoolize /usr/local/bin/libtoolize

 7. Download Armory [here](https://github.com/goatpig/BitcoinArmory). There are two options.

   7.1. Download the source code from the [GitHub Armory releases page](https://github.com/goatpig/BitcoinArmory/releases/). Ensure that you download **only** the relevant "src.tar.gz" file, and **not** the code from the "Download ZIP" buttonfound elsewhere on GitHub. (Long story short, the `fcgi` submodule, which Armory requires, will **only** be included in the "src.tar.gz" file due to a long-standing GitHub bug affecting code auto-downloads.) After verifying the code, per the [macOS README directions](../README_macOS.md), unzip the code.

   7.2. The more advanced method, which is recommended only for developers and other advanced tinkerers, is to use [Git version control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) in order to obtain the code. While more advanced, this makes it far easier to obtain code updates and to submit patches to Armory. Go [here](https://github.com/goatpig/BitcoinArmory) and use the "Clone or download" button to get a URL to use to clone the code. [This page](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository-from-github/) has a partial tutorial, and [SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/) is a good app for starters. It is highly recommended that, at a bare minimum, users learn how to clone a repo and successfully switch between branches before going any further.

 8. (*OPTIONAL*) If compiling on a pre-10.12 macOS version with the intention of compiling for macOS 10.7, change the minimum version to 10.7 from 10.8 in osxbuild/build-app.py, osxbuild/objc\_armory/ArmoryMac.pro, and osxbuild/qmake\_LFLAGS.patch by searching for instances of 10.8 and changing them to 10.7.

 9. Compile Armory.

        cd *Location of Armory source code*  (An example would be ~/Projects/BitcoinArmory)
		git submodule init  (Required only if using Git version control, as discussed in Step 7.2.)
		git submodule update  (Required only if using Git version control, as discussed in Step 7.2.)
		cd osxbuild
        python build-app.py > /dev/null

The "> /dev/null" line in step 9 is optional. All this does is prevent the command line from being overwhelmed with build output. The output will automatically be saved to osxbuild/build-app.log.txt no matter what.

Armory.app will be found under the "workspace" subdirectory. It can be moved anywhere on the system, including under `/Applications`.

To avoid runtime issues (e.g. *ImportError: No module named pkg_resources*) when attempting to run builds on other machines/VMs, make sure $PYTHONPATH is empty. In addition, try not to have any "brew"ed libpng, Python or Qt modules installed. Any of the above could lead to unpredictable behavior.

## Compilation issues
If you run into any compilation issues, please [post on Bitcoin Forum's Armory subforum](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=97.0) or consult the *bitcoin-armory* IRC channel on Freenode. Note that compilation of "dev"/"testing" versions of Armory may be broken on Linux and macOS. Armory's developed primarily for Windows, with Linux and macOS compilation issues fixed once goatpig's satisfied with the state of the Windows code. The "master" code should never be broken, as it consists of what gets officially released.

Commit message:

Increase macOS minimum target to 10.9
Some C++11 calls added in recent commits (e.g., atomic_store()) don't appear to be in the libraries included with macOS 10.8. It's arguable if anybody out there is running Armory on 10.8. Therefore, instead of reworking the code, just increase the macOS minimum to 10.9. In addition, other actions were required in order to get Armory to run across various platforms.

- An obscure bug in Crypto++ 5.6.2 prevents the linker from building a vtable for some SHA classes in macOS, thereby causing startup failures. Move Crypto++ back to being a static library.
- Force the Crypto++ library to be included in an install.
- Use install_name_tool to make various libraries usable from relative locations, and not just from the point where they were compiled.
- Moved files into Armory's "common" shared library in order to resolve startup failures.
- Rearranged, cleaned up, modified, and disentangled various build variables, mostly related to variables being added two or three times.
- Due to macOS requirements, force the macOS build to always use libc++ instead of allowing for libstdc++. (Linux and Windows builds are unchanged.)
- Allow the macOS build script to properly rebuild Armory instead of wasting 20+ minutes rebuilding the prerequisites every time.
- Xcode 9.3 updates to clang 9.1, which breaks the Qt4 build. Patch Qt4 in order to let Qt4 build.
- brew has switched "python" over to Python 3. This breaks the build script. Force usage of Python 2 as is appropriate.

osxbuild/macOS_build_notes.md, after:

# macOS BUILD NOTES
These notes describe what had to be done on fresh installs of macOS 10.9 - 10.13 in order to compile Armory.

## Requirements / Caveats
Due to code changes, as of v0.97, Armory can run only on macOS 10.9 or later. v0.96.4 can run on macOS 10.8, and earlier versions can run on macOS 10.7. Check previous code tarballs for directions on how to compile earlier versions of Armory.

If a bug is found, please consult the [Bitcoin Forum](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=97.0) or *bitcoin-armory* IRC channel on Freenode for further instructions.

## Instructions
 1. Get an Apple developer account (free), log in, and download the latest version of Command Line Tools for Xcode. As an alternative, install the latest version of [Xcode](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/xcode/id497799835) and download Command Line Tools via Xcode. Either choice will be updated via the App Store.

 2. Open a terminal and install the Xcode commandline tools. Follow any prompts that appear.

        xcode-select --install

 3. Install and update [Homebrew](http://brew.sh). Warnings can probably be ignored, although environment differences and changes Apple makes to the OS between major releases make it impossible to provide definitive guidance. Any instructions given by Homebrew must be followed. (Exact directions seem to change depending on which version of Xcode is installed.)

        /usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
        touch ~/.bashrc
        echo "export CFLAGS=\"-arch x86_64\"" >> ~/.bashrc
        echo "export ARCHFLAGS=\"-arch x86_64\"" >> ~/.bashrc
        source ~/.bashrc
        brew update
        brew doctor

 4. Install and link dependencies required by the Armory build process but not by included Armory binaries.

        brew install xz swig gettext openssl automake libtool homebrew/dupes/zlib python2
        brew link gettext --force

 5. Restart your Mac. (This is necessary due to issues related to the Python install.)

 6. Create a symbolic link for glibtoolize. (This requires sudo access and is probably not strictly necessary. It make Autotools much happier, though, and should be harmless otherwise.)

        sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/glibtoolize /usr/local/bin/libtoolize

 7. Download Armory [here](https://github.com/goatpig/BitcoinArmory). There are two options.

   7.1. Download the source code from the [GitHub Armory releases page](https://github.com/goatpig/BitcoinArmory/releases/). Ensure that you download **only** the relevant "src.tar.gz" file, and **not** the code from the "Download ZIP" buttonfound elsewhere on GitHub. (Long story short, the `fcgi` submodule, which Armory requires, will **only** be included in the "src.tar.gz" file due to a long-standing GitHub bug affecting code auto-downloads.) After verifying the code, per the [macOS README directions](../README_macOS.md), unzip the code.

   7.2. The more advanced method, which is recommended only for developers and other advanced tinkerers, is to use [Git version control](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) in order to obtain the code. While more advanced, this makes it far easier to obtain code updates and to submit patches to Armory. Go [here](https://github.com/goatpig/BitcoinArmory) and use the "Clone or download" button to get a URL to use to clone the code. [This page](https://help.github.com/articles/cloning-a-repository-from-github/) has a partial tutorial, and [SourceTree](https://www.sourcetreeapp.com/) is a good app for starters. It is highly recommended that, at a bare minimum, users learn how to clone a repo and successfully switch between branches before going any further.

 8. Compile Armory.

        cd *Location of Armory source code*  (An example would be ~/Projects/BitcoinArmory)
		git submodule init  (Required only if using Git version control, as discussed in Step 7.2.)
		git submodule update  (Required only if using Git version control, as discussed in Step 7.2.)
		cd osxbuild
        python2 build-app.py > /dev/null

The "> /dev/null" line in step 8 is optional. All this does is prevent the command line from being overwhelmed with build output. The output will automatically be saved to osxbuild/build-app.log.txt no matter what.

Armory.app will be found under the "workspace" subdirectory. It can be moved anywhere on the system, including under `/Applications`.

To avoid runtime issues (e.g. *ImportError: No module named pkg_resources*) when attempting to run builds on other machines/VMs, make sure $PYTHONPATH is empty. In addition, try not to have any "brew"ed libpng, Python or Qt modules installed. Any of the above could lead to unpredictable behavior.

## Compilation issues
If you run into any compilation issues, please [post on Bitcoin Forum's Armory subforum](https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?board=97.0) or consult the *bitcoin-armory* IRC channel on Freenode. Note that compilation of "dev"/"testing" versions of Armory may be broken on Linux and macOS. Armory's developed primarily for Windows, with Linux and macOS compilation issues fixed once goatpig's satisfied with the state of the Windows code. The "master" code should never be broken, as it consists of what gets officially released.
